General Info
Are clubs compulsory?
No. Having a club is not compulsory, though it is encouraged that you join one to enrich your poly life!

How many clubs can you join?
As many as you want. It’s free real estate :)

How do you apply for a club?
Through the club application form or simply contact the specific club through email.

How do you leave a club?
Students will have to inform their club commitee and update their CCA status on the student portal.

How do you create a club?
You will need to submit a club application form and go through a series of presentations for the club to be approved

For more information together with the club application form, click this link:
Download New Club Formation Application Form here

What are the benefits of clubs?
Clubs are a great way to enrich a student’s life, providing opportunities to learn things not thought in their respective curriculum.


CCA Points Award & Grading System
How are CCA points awarded?
CCA points will be awarded only to CCAs that are organised or endorsed by SP.
CCA points for external CCAs will only be given to official National representation or SP-related activities approved or endoresed by SA.

CCA points are not awarded to activities that form part of a formal course curriculum

What are CCA points for?
CCA points cumulative over the 3 years of a student’s education in SP will be converted into a grade that is reflected in the student’s final-year’s CCA statement

You can view this under SP Student Portal > eServices > CCA > View CCA Records

What CCA components are there?
There are 7 components, namely:
Representation®, Achievement(A), Leadership(L), Community Services(CS), Service(S), Enrichment(E) and Participation§

To find out more about each component, ask
Can you tell me more about each component?

Can you tell me more about each component?
Representation Component
Awarded when students represent SP in a competition.

2 points for school/department level, 10 points for inter-polytechnic level to 50 points for full national level.
Full national level representatives must be selected/sanctioned by Singapore Sports Council (SSC), Singapore National Olympics Council (SNOC), National Sports Associations (NSA), National Arts Council (NAC) or the National Arts Association (NSA)

Achievement Component
Awarded to students who win in recognised competitions.
Points ranges from 1 for SIlver/Bronze in school/dept/club events, 6 for NYAA Gold to 10 poiints for Gold in international competitions or Sportsman/Sportswomen of the year awards

Leadership Component
Awarded to students who takes leadership positions.
Points ranges from 2 for deputy class rep, 4 for class rep to 10 for President of SP Student’s Union (SPSU)

Community Service Component
Awarded to students who takes part in activities involving helping the disadvantaged and the beneficiaries must be people.
**Note: Performances to the community, care of animals and environmental activities are therefore not considered as community service but rather under service component

Points ranges from 2 for Flag Days to 15 for SP/NYC initiated/overseas community projects

Service Component
Awarded to students who helps out in official activities.
Points ranges from 2 for SP events, 4 for Poly 50, 8 for World Youth level events & a max of 10 for service rendered by students based on their percentage attendance

Enrichment Component
Awarded to students who attend structures courses/educational talks/seminars
Points ranges from 1 for school/dept talks to 10 for being certified with a Private Pilot License with the SYFC

Participation Component
Awarded to students who participate in events voluntarily or though invitation.
Points ranges from 1 to 10 depending on the level & length of particiaption

CCA points are also awarded for attendance for CCA clubs based on attendance

How does the grading system work?
[Insert picture here]

How are our CCA points consolidated?
CCA points are to be submitted within 1 month of the completion of the activity to the staff in-charge.
The CCA records will then be updated into the SAS system.

The secretary of the club will usually be the one responsible for making these requests on behalf of the students.


SFL (Sports for Life)
What is Sports for Life (SFL)?
Sports for Life (SFL) is a physical education programme with up to 18 modules (for Year 1) and 11 modules (Year 2 & 3) to choose from. It has recently become part of the Graduation Criteria for ALL Year 1 students matriculated from AY2018/19 onwards.

What is the pass criteria for SFL?
75% attendance and a passing grade in their respective module’s skills assessment in Week 9 & 10

How do I register for SFL?
Please follow the steps in this guide here to register
https://life.sp.edu.sg/active/sports-for-life/how-to-register/

Students will have to also submit an indemnity form on their 1st lesson to participate
https://life.sp.edu.sg/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/SA-FRM-026E-SA-Indemnity-Form-Rel-2.1-SFL-Year-1-3.pdf

What are the modules present in SFL?
The full list of SFL modules can be found here.
https://life.sp.edu.sg/active/sports-for-life/type-of-modules/

Which day is SFL held on?
Schedules and venues can be found here
https://life.sp.edu.sg/active/sports-for-life/schedules-venues/

Where will SFL take place in?
Schedules and venues can be found here
https://life.sp.edu.sg/active/sports-for-life/schedules-venues/

Can I change my SFL date?
No. The schedule is fixed for each course you’re in.
Eg. SFL might fall on Mondays for DISM students whilst DCITP students have their SFL weekly on Fridays.