Singapore Polytechnic (Abbreviation: SP) is an institution of higher learning in Singapore. It is also the first polytechnic established in Singapore. It was founded on 27 October 1954 to provide studies, training and research in technology, science, commerce and the arts. The former campus was originally located at Prince Edward Road and was relocated to its present-day location at Dover next to Dover MRT Station in 1978. As an industry-oriented alternative to a broader based junior college education, polytechnic graduates in Singapore are sought after for work or many continue to complete university degrees. In contrast to polytechnics in the United States and UK, polytechnics in Singapore admit majority of its students after secondary school which is after 10 years of formal education. Diplomas in a specialised area of study, for example Biomedical Science, are awarded after completing 3 or 2 years of studies.

2010 saw Singapore Polytechnic's 50th graduation ceremony and 150,000th graduate.[2] In 2018, Singapore Polytechnic became the first polytechnic to achieve a milestone of 200,000 graduates.

Facilities
Retail and Dining
Food outlets

6 foodcourts (including Koufu Food Court)
McDonald's
KFC
Starbucks Coffee
Subway
Cafe @ Moberly
Long John Silver's
Bang Deli
Old Chang Kee
Retail Outlets

Dover Mart
Popular Bookstore
Sports
Sports Complex, with a full-length football pitch and running track
Swimming complex
4 Tennis Courts
3 Badminton Courts
1 Gym
3 Basketball Courts
The Sports Arena, completed in 2015 has 12 badminton courts, 2 Basketball courts, 4 Squash Courts, 1 Multipurpose Hall and 2 Volleyball Courts. Other facilities include an external rock climbing wall and 2 rooftop Basketball Courts.

Moberly is the oldest block of SP. Once a British army barracks, the building has been refurbished into a recreational hub. It contains seven pool tables (3 on level 1, four on level 2), jamming studios, karaoke rooms, a café and a mini museum.

Other facilities
The alumni clubhouse, Singapore Polytechnic Graduates Guild (SPGG), is next to the campus, and contains a bowling alley, swimming pool, pool room, a gym and a restaurant.[6]
Two libraries: the Main Library and Hilltop Library. The Main Library houses the first Makerspace in a Singapore library.[7]
Aerohub: A four-storey building that houses an aircraft hangar, laboratories and a Research & Development centre. There are 4 aircraft in the hangar: Hawker HS125-700A, King Air B90, A4SU Super Skyhawk and Bell UH-1H Helicopter.[8]
Awards and certifications
The Polytechnic has been awarded the Singapore Quality Class as well as the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications. It has also won the Singapore Public Service Award for Organisational Excellence and the People Developer and Family Friendly Awards.

SP received the President's Award for the Environment in 2010.[9] Some of the key green initiatives by SP over the years included spearheading the adoption of Marina Reservoir to keep it clean and organising the Singapore International Water Festival to engage youths on environmental and water issues.

In 2011, SP won the South West Environment and Community (ECo) Award (Community Category). The award recognises exemplar efforts of organisations that have contributed to environmental and community sustainability in the district.

SP also clinched the inaugural ASEAN People’s Award in 2015 for its contributions toward the region’s community-building efforts.

Scholarships and Outstanding Talent Programme
Currently, SP offers the following scholarships

SP Scholarship
SP Engineering Scholarship
SP Sports and Arts Scholarship
Singapore Polytechnic Outstanding Talent (SPOT) Programme

SPOT is a talent development and enrichment programme. All SP Scholars will automatically be placed under this programme. Other eligible students will be invited to join SPOT based on their year 1 semester 1 academic results or lecturers' recommendation.

Early Admissions Exercise (EAE)
EAE is an admissions exercise that allows students to apply and receive conditional offers for admission to polytechnic based on their aptitudes and interests before taking their O-Level exams. This exercise replaced the Direct Polytechnic Admissions (DPA) Exercise and Joint Admission Exercise (JAE).

Notable alumni
Tanya Chua – 3-time Best Female Vocalist Golden Melody Award-winning singer-songwriter
Taufik Batisah – Singapore Idol winner and singer
Kelly Poon – Project SuperStar winner and Mandarin pop singer
Shih Choon Fong – Former President of National University of Singapore and Founding President of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
Chai Keong Toh – Chair Professor, IEEE and IET medalist, electrical engineer, computer scientist
Cedric Foo – Member of Parliament, Singapore
Liang Eng Hwa – Member of Parliament, Singapore
Pek Jin Shen – Hip hop artist and songwriter